["Allison Joy Courtenay, Countess of Devon (n\u00e9e Langer, born May 22, 1974), commonly known as A. J. Langer, is an American former actress most notable for her role as Rayanne Graff on the television series My So-Called Life.","Allison Joy Langer was born in Columbus, Ohio, daughter of Jewish parents Deana, an audiologist who owned a hearing aid distribution company, and Gary Langer, who worked in sales for a wholesale fashion distributor.[1] She moved to the San Fernando Valley with her family at age five. When she joined an otherwise all-boys baseball team at age eight, her teammates considered the name \"Allison\" to be too feminine, and began calling her by her initials, \"A.J.\"[2] She has one older brother, Kirk.[2]","After recurring roles on several television shows, including The Wonder Years, Baywatch and Drexell's Class, Langer was cast as Rayanne Graff on My So-Called Life. She also appeared in the cast of the sitcoms It's Like, You Know... and Three Sisters as well as the drama series Eyes. Her film appearances include John Carpenter's Escape From L.A. and Wes Craven's horror film The People Under the Stairs.","In 2011, after a six-year acting hiatus, Langer appeared in 14 episodes of Private Practice in the recurring role of Erica Warner. She left the show in 2012 following the death of her character.","Langer married attorney Charles Courtenay, Lord Courtenay, the son of The 18th Earl of Devon, in a civil ceremony in 2004. A formal wedding took place on April 30, 2005, in Los Angeles, California.[3] Until the death of her father-in-law, Langer held the courtesy title of Lady Courtenay. Following his death, and upon her husband's succession as 19th Earl of Devon, she assumed the title of Countess of Devon. In January 2014, Langer and Courtenay permanently relocated their family to London, and to the family seat at Powderham Castle in May 2015. The couple have two children, a daughter and a son:","In her spare time, the Countess raises awareness and money for the research and treatment of fibromyalgia, from which she herself suffers.[4]"]