["Lieutenant General Jaiveer Singh Negi (born 20 September 1960) PVSM, AVSM, YSM, VSM** was the 49th Commandant of the Indian Military Academy.[4] He took over from Lieutenant General Sanjay Kumar Jha, PVSM, AVSM, YSM, SM,[5] on 1 February 2020. Prior to his appointment as Commandant of the Indian Military Academy, he was the Deputy Commander-in-Chief of Strategic Forces Command [6]","Lt. General Negi was born in Kamad Village, Chamoli, Garhwal. He started his schooling in the village and later completed his schooling from St. John's H.S. School in Meerut. He is an alumnus of National Defence Academy (Pune) (58th course), Indian Military Academy (Dehradun) (68th course). He holds M.Sc from Defence Services Staff College (Wellington) (1994), M.Phil. from Devi Ahilya University (Indore), and M.Phil. from University of Madras (Chennai). He has attended training at Junior Leaders Wing (Belgaum), Infantry School (Mhow),  Defence Services Staff College, Army War College, Mhow, Centre for UN Peacekeeping (CUNPK), New Delhi, and National Defence College, New Delhi.","Lt. General Negi joined the National Defence Academy (India) in 1977, and Indian Military Academy in 1980. He was commissioned into an Infantry Battalion (16 Dogra Regiment) in June 1981. In more than 39 years of military career, he has tenanted important command and staff appointments. He has commanded his Battalion in Western Sector during Op Parakram, Assam Rifles Sector in Assam\/ Arunachal Pradesh under 'Operation Rhino\/ Operation Orchid' under Counter Insurgency operations as a Brigadier, a Division as a Major General in High Altitude areas of Jammu and Kashmir, and Strike Corps at, Ambala.[7] He then took over as Deputy Commander-in-Chief, Strategic Forces Command as Lieutenant General before assuming the appointment of Commandant of the Indian Military Academy on 1 February 2020.","Lt. General Negi has been an instructor in Infantry School, Mhow, and has also been a part of Indian Military Training Team at Bhutan. He has served with United Nations as Deputy Commander and Chief of Staff of a Multi-National Indian Brigade in Congo (MONUC) where he was awarded United Nations Force Commander's commendation.","As a Major to Lieutenant colonel, Negi has served in various operational areas along the line of control, high altitude areas, counter insurgency operations and with Ladakh Scouts. He has served extensively in Jammu and Kashmir and in Ladakh. He has been Colonel GS of  Division and has served as  Colonel, as a Brigadier and as a Major General in Military Secretary's Branch, Perspective Planning and Military Operations Directorates at the Integrated Headquarters of Ministry of Defence (Army), New Delhi. He was the delegation leader of the first Tri-Services Observer Delegation (INDRA-2017) with the Russian Defence Forces at Vladivostok, Russia.[8]","As the present Commandant of the Indian Military Academy, he has presided over the Spring Term-20 Award ceremony [9][10] on 10 June 2020 and conducted the 146th Passing out Parade on 13 July 2020 while following all the COVID-19 safety and social distancing protocols. The present Chief of the Army Staff General Manoj Mukund Naravane, PVSM, AVSM, SM, VSM, ADC was the reviewing officer for the Passing out Parade.","During his career he has been awarded the Vishisht Seva Medal in 2007 and 2012, the Yudh Seva Medal as the General Officer Commanding of 8 Mountain Division in 2015, the Ati Vishisht Seva Medal in 2016 and the Param Vishisht Seva Medal as Deputy Commander-in-Chief at Strategic Forces Command in 2020.[11][12]","Lt. General Negi hails from Chamoli, Garhwal, Uttarakhand. He enjoys golf, travelling, yoga and photography. He is married to Mrs. Kusum Negi and has two sons."]