["Fabienne Colas Joseph, (born March 18, 1979), is a Haitian-Canadian actress, director and producer. She is head of the Fabienne Colas Foundation, which is dedicated to the promotion of film, art and culture as it organizes many festivals.[1] Fabienne is also a recipient for the 2018 Canada's 40 under 40 award.[2]","Fabienne Colas was born in Port-au-Prince, Haiti. At a very young age, discovered her aptitude for theater, dance and a great sense of leadership. Standing at 5'8\" tall, with a slender figure and waist, she became also a model at the age of 16 years. She started modeling with Academy Perfection, one of the largest schools of fashion modeling in Haiti, led by Magalie Racine.[3]","Colas is an activist for cultural diversity upon her arrival in Canada, and she is the guest of many panel discussions, lectures, debates, interviews and consultations on issues of representation of diversity in the Quebec media and the labor force. She is among the business women in Quebec and runs her own production company Production Zaza. Colas, former model and Miss Haiti 2000 is fluent in Haitian Creole, French, English and Spanish and represented Haiti in several beauty contests abroad.[4]","In 2003, she won the Golden Ticket Award for Best Actress for the film Barikad in Haiti (directed by Richard Senecal) and was nominated for the same film Haitian Entertainment Awards in Florida. She plays in several Quebec productions both big on the small screen (Watatatow, Auberge Black Dog, How to Conquer America in One Night, Trauma, Providence).[5]","Colas, a member of the Union des artistes (UDA), the Alliance of Canadian Television and Radio Artists (ACTRA) and the ACCT, she participated in several prestigious juries Quebec artistic community, including the Canada Council and the Letters of Quebec.[6] She created the Montreal International Black Film Festival, and later launched the Toronto Black Film Festival and the Halifax Black Film Festival.","In 2008, she signed her first film, Midnight, long fiction film about voodoo in which she plays a lead role. She is also the winner of Month Black History in 2010 in the category \"cultural events\".[7]","Fabienne Colas holds two licenses since 2011, the Canadian Radio-television and the Telecommunications Commission (CRTC); for the creation of two television channels in French, Diversity TV 1 and TV Good Taste. It intends to offer more colors in television programs including Quebec."]