["The Edinburg Roadrunners were a professional baseball team based in Edinburg, Texas, in the United States. The Roadrunners were a member of the United League Baseball, an independent professional league which is not affiliated with Major League Baseball or Minor League Baseball.  They played in United League Baseball from 2006 to 2010 and the North American League from 2011 to 2012. They played their home games at Edinburg Stadium. The city refused to extend a lease for the 2014 season and with nowhere to play the team shut down.","Formerly named the Edinburg Coyotes, this franchise of United League Baseball replaced the Central Baseball League's Edinburg Roadrunners as the area's professional baseball club. The Coyotes began their existence by winning a historic 17 games without a loss, a minor league record, completing over 5 series before finally losing to the San Angelo Colts.  The Coyotes went on to win the inaugural United League regular season title before losing to the Alexandria Aces in the league championship.  After spending its first three seasons as the Coyotes, United League Baseball at a press conference on April 30, 2009 announced the franchise would become the Edinburg Roadrunners, named after the prior popular ball club, including its team logo and mascot.","Seasons as Edinburg Roadrunners shown in red\r\n Seasons as Edinburg Coyotes shown in tan","The original Edinburg Roadrunners were a franchise of the now defunct Texas\u2013Louisiana League, later the Central Baseball League, and played from 2001-05.  Like the current Roadrunners, the original team was an independent baseball team not affiliated with either Major League Baseball or Minor League Baseball.  They also played their home games at Edinburg Stadium.","Connections between the original and current Edinburg Roadrunners include the same name, logo, colors, mascot Rowdy the Roadrunner, manager Vince Moore, CBL\/ULB All-Star Eric Gonzalez, Pitcher Pedro Flores, and playing at Edinburg Baseball Stadium.  The Rio Grande Valley WhiteWings have been a rival of both teams."]