["Amrita Arora   (born 31 January 1978) is an Indian film actress, model, TV Presenter and VJ.[1] She is the Sister of Bollywood actress and host Malaika Arora.","Amrita Arora was born in Thane, Maharastra. Her parents were divorced when she was 6 years old and later she moved to Chembur with her mother & sister Malaika Arora. Her mother, Joyce Polycarp, is a Malayali Catholic and her father, Anil Arora, was a Punjabi native to Indian border town of Fazilka, who worked in the Merchant Navy. ","She completed her secondary education from Swami Vivekanand School in Chembur. Her aunt, Grace Polycarp, was the principal of the school, Mumbai.[2] Her sister is Bolywood Actress , VJ and Host  Malaika Arora.","She is married to Shakeel Ladak, a businessman from construction industry in 2009. The ceremonies included a Christian wedding on 4 March 2009 followed by Mehendi on 5 March and a Muslim Nikah ceremony on the 6 March 2009. They have two sons named Azaan born on 5 February 2010 and Rayaan born on 20 October 2012.[3][4]","Arora made her Bollywood debut in 2002 opposite Fardeen Khan in the film, Kitne Door Kitne Paas, which was not successful at the box office. Her first successful film was the action comedy, Awara Paagal Deewana. A series of flops followed, among them the controversial Girlfriend (2004), about a lesbian relationship, in which she appeared opposite Isha Koppikar.","In 2007, she made a special appearance in Farah Khan's film, Om Shanti Om in the song \"Deewangi Deewangi\" with her sister and former brother-in-law Arbaaz Khan. In the same year, she appeared in Speed and Red: The Dark Side, also starring Aftab Shivdasani and Celina Jaitley. The films received mixed reviews at the box office.","In 2009, her releases were Deha and Team the Force. The same year, she appeared in a supporting role in Kambakth Ishq, produced by Sajid Nadiadwala.","She has since then quit acting in movies due to personal reasons.","This article about an Indian film actor is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it."]