["The Certified Professional in Supply Management (CPSM) is a globally recognized professional credential offered by the Institute for Supply Management (ISM) \u201c...the largest supply management association in the world as well as one of the most respected.\u201d[1] Being certified as a CPSM indicates the holder has achieved mastery of supply management\u2019s core competencies.[2][3] The certification program\u2019s emphasis on strategic supply chain integration, along with procurement and supply management, prepares the practitioner to move beyond tactical thinking in order to generate strategic solutions and to evolve continually in the rapidly changing supply management environment.","Since the certification program's inception, ISM has granted nearly 13,000 CPSMs and has current CPSM holders in 68 countries.","Up until 2008, the highest credential that ISM offered was the Certified Purchasing Manager (C.P.M.) designation, which the organization first offered in 1974.[4] The C.P.M. required qualified applicants to pass four exam modules that measured their aptitude in areas such as purchasing, supplier relations, quality issues, business law, personnel challenges, diversity and more. As respected as the C.P.M. was in the procurement profession, ISM determined that a new level of certification was needed to address the evolving needs of the supply management professional and the increasing complexity of business, including the intricacies of globalization.[5]","ISM\u2019s development of the CPSM qualification allowed it to move beyond a narrow focus on purchasing to roles that require a broader knowledge of supply management and leadership. With the introduction of the new qualification, ISM discontinued testing for the C.P.M. designation and transitioned it to a recertification-only status. During a transitional period that ended in 2015, ISM offered those holding a C.P.M. qualification the opportunity to take a bridge exam to qualify for a CPSM certification.[6][7]","To obtain a CPSM designation, the association requires candidates to have three years of full-time, professional supply management experience (nonclerical, nonsupport) with a regionally accredited bachelor's degree or international equivalent or five years of supply management experience (nonclerical, nonsupport) without a degree. Before qualifying for the CPSM designation, candidates must pass three exam modules.","Each of the three required CPSM exam modules has a different focus. The exam modules can be taken in any order.","To maintain the integrity of the credential, ISM requires CPSM holders to continue learning and developing their skills throughout their career. The CPSM certification is valid for three years, and the holder must apply for recertification to maintain the designation. To be eligible for recertification, CPSM holders must earn 60 hours of approved continuing education through any combination of:","After a designated one-year grace period, a professional whose certification has lapsed must retake all three exams."]