["Adama Science and Technology University ( ASTU) was first established in 1993 as Nazareth Technical College (NTC)is one of the two Science And Technology Universities of Ethiopia. It is located in Adama, a city in the Oromia regional state of Ethiopia.[1]","Adama Science and Technology University ( ASTU) was first established in 1993 as Nazareth Technical College (NTC), offering degree and diploma level education in technology fields. Later, the institution was renamed as Nazareth College of Technical Teacher Education (NCTTE), a self-explanatory label that describes what the institution used to train back then: candidates who would become technical teachers for TVET colleges\/Schools across the country.","In 2003, a new addition to NCTTE came about\u2014introduction of business education. Nonetheless, the new entries were solely meant for similar purposes: these graduates were also expected to help overcome the existing dearth of educators in vocational institutions.","However, it was not until it was nominated by the Ministry of Education as Center of Excellence in Technology in 2008 that it opened various programs in applied engineering and technology. For its realization, it became a university modeled after the German paradigm: it not only became the only technical university in the nation, but also the only one led by a German professor.","Following its renaming by the Council of Ministers as Adama Science and Technology University in May 2011, the university has started working towards the attainment of becoming a center of excellence in science and technology, thereby allowing for the realization of goals set in the Growth and Transformation Plan (GTP). To this end, a South Korean has been appointed as President of the University. Currently, ASTU is setting up a Research Park, in collaboration with stakeholders and other concerned bodies: one of a kind in the Ethiopian context. The university is also venturing out to the wider community and is currently engaged in various joint undertakings.[2]","1. School of Applied Natural Sciences Programs (4 year)","2. School of Civil Engineering and Architecture Programs (5 year)","3. School of Electrical Engineering and Computing Programs (5 year)","4. School of Mechanical, Chemical, and Materials Engineering Programs (5 year)"]