["John Cusacke (died 1626) was a  wealthy merchant, landowner and  politician in seventeenth-century Dublin,  who  served as   Mayor and Sheriff of Dublin.","He was born in County Meath, eldest of the ten children of Patrick Cusacke  of Ballymolghan and his wife Maud Plunkett, daughter of Thomas Plunkett of Lagore,  Ratoath. The Cusacks are recorded  at Ballymolghan since about  1508. He was admitted as a freeman  of the city of Dublin in 1592, having served his apprenticeship.  He married Margaret Allen, daughter of Giles Allen, a former Mayor of Dublin,  and widow of John Gough, an alderman of Dublin.  They had five children,  including  Robert, who inherited his father's estate and  sat in the Irish House of Commons as MP  for Kells in 1640-42,  and Anne, who married Richard Barry.","John served as Sheriff of Dublin City in 1599-1600  and was an alderman of Dublin Corporation from 1604 until his death.  He was active on several committees of the Corporation, and served as Treasurer in 1610-11. He was Mayor of Dublin in  1608-9: Robert Kennedy, who had hoped to be Mayor, was passed over, apparently because he was a recusant. John himself, though he conformed outwardly  to the Protestant faith, was far from unsympathetic to Roman Catholics, and was an active member of the Catholic Saint Anne's Guild, helping  to protect its charter when it was under threat. He served four terms as  one of  the masters of the Dublin Merchants' Guild, and on its  behalf he petitioned the English Crown in 1609 for repayment of loans owing to the  Irish Treasury: he claimed that  \u00a31300 was owed to him personally, an indication of his  wealth.","He became a substantial landowner in  Dublin and Meath. The principal  Cusacke family home was   Rathgar Castle (which had been built by the Segrave family in the sixteenth century). It stood in   in  Rathgar,  which  is now a suburb of Dublin: he bought  the  castle in 1609. All trace of it has vanished today,  but it probably stood on present day Highfield Road.","He was the grandfather of two distinguished judges: Robert, his eldest son,  was the father of Adam Cusack, justice of the Court of Common Pleas (Ireland), and  John's daughter Anne was the mother of James Barry, 1st Baron Barry of Santry, Lord Chief  Justice of Ireland."]